# The Model Layer

Models describe business objects, such as an opportunity, sales order, or partner (customer, supplier, and so on). A model has a list of attributes and can also define its specific business.

Models are implemented using a Python class derived from an Odoo template class. They translate directly to database objects, and Odoo automatically takes care of this when installing or upgrading the module. The mechanism responsible for this is the **Object Relational Model (ORM)**.


## Creating the data model

1. Python files for models should be placed inside a `models` subdirectory. For example: Create `todo_model.py` file in the main directory of the `todo_app` module with following content:
```
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

from odoo import models, fields

class TodoTask(models.Model):
    _name = 'todo.task'
    _description = 'To-do Task'
    name = fields.Char('Description', required=True)
    is_done = fields.Boolean('Done?')
    active = fields.Boolean('Active?', default=True)
```
2. Register model to `__init__.py`:
```from . import todo_model```
3. See the model definition by go to **Settings**, go to **Technical -> Database Structure -> Models**, search for the **todo.task** model on the list, and click on it to see its definition.


## Adding automated tests

Odoo supports two ways to describe test: either using **YAML** data files or using Python code based on the **Unitttest2** library. Prefer to use **Unitttest2**, since **YAML** tests are a legacy from older version.

The test code files should have a name starting with **test_** and should be imported from **tests/__init__.py**. But the **tests** directory (or Python submodule) should not be imported from the module's top **__init__.py**, since it will be automatically discovered and loaded only when tests are executed.

Step by step adding automated tests for `todo_app`:

1. Create **tests** subdirectory.
2. Add a **tests/__init__.py** with content:
```from . import test_todo```
3. Add test code in `tests/test_todo.py`, for example:
```
# -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

from odoo.tests.common import TransactionCase

class TestTodo(TransactionCase):
	def test_create(self):
		"Create a simple todo"
		Todo = self.env['todo.task']
		task = Todo.create({'name': 'Test Task'})
		self.assertEqual(task.is_done, False)
```
This will verify that the the **Is Done?** field has the correct default value.
4. Run the test by adding the `--test-enable`:
```./odoo.py -d todo -i todo_app --test-enable```