# Essential Concept and Addons

Odoo follows an MVC-like architecture, but **Controller** in Odoo little bit different with common definition of controller. In Odoo, **Controller** is program endpoints that web pages can call to perform actions.

## Essential Concept

- **Module addons** are the building blocks for Odoo applications. A module can add new features to Odoo, or modify existing ones.
- **Applications** are the way major features are added to Odoo. They provide the core elements for a functional area, such as Accounting or HR, based on which additional addon modules modify or extend features.

## Creating the module basic skeleton

An Odoo addon module is a directory containing a `__openerp__.py` descriptor file.

### VM or physical machine

1. Create a new directory called as `custom addons` in project root directory:
```mkdir custom-addons```
2. Use `scaffold` command to automatically create a new module directory:
```odoo.py scaffold <MODULE_NAME> <MODULE_PATH>```
3. Add a `__openerp__.py` file alongside the `__init__.py`. For example:
```
{
    'name': 'To-Do Application',
    'description': 'Manage your personal To-Do tasks.',
    'author': 'Daniel Reis',
    'depends': ['base'],
    'application': true
}
```
4. Add new addons path configurations:
```
./odoo.py -d <DATABASE> --addons-path="custom-addons,odoo/addons" --save
```

### Docker

1. Create a new directory called as `addons` in working directory.
2. Run the docker with bind our `addons` directory to `/mnt/extra-addons`:
```docker run -v addons:/mnt/extra-addons -p 8069:8069 --name odoo --link db:db -t odoo```
3. Change appropriate permission for `addons` directory, for example: `chmod -R 777 addons` in development environment.
4. Execute `scaffold`:
```docker exec odoo /usr/bin/odoo scaffold <MODULE_NAME> /mnt/extra-addons```
5. Or, call `bash` terminal from docker:
```
docker exec -ti odoo bash
/usr/bin/odoo scaffold <MODULE_NAME> /mnt/extra-addons
```

## Installing the new module

1. Ensure that `Developer Mode` was enabled by looking at `Settings` dashboard.
2. In the **Apps** top menu, select the **Update Apps List** option.
3. Click on the module's **Install** button.

## Upgrading the module

1. Stop current running Odoo server by pressing **CTRL+C**.
2. Restart the server.
3. Upgrade the module:
```./odoo.py -d <DATABASE> -u <MODULE>```