# More to Extend Models

Inheritance using the `_inherit` attribute has more powerful capabilities, such as **mixin** classes and method delegation.


## Copying features using prototype inheritance

Copying means that the inherited methods and fields will also be available in the inheriting model. For fields this means that they will be also created and stored in the target model's database tables. The data records of the original (inherited) and the new (inheriting) models are kept unrelated. Only the definitions are shared.

Using the `_name` attribute allows to create mixin classes, by setting it to the model we want to extend. Here is an example:
```
from openerp import models
class TodoTask(models.Model):
	_name = 'todo.task'
	_inherit = 'mail.thread'
```
This extends the `todo.task` model by copying to it features of the `mail.thread` model. The `mail.thread` model implements the Odoo messages and followers features, and is reusable.


## Embedding models using delegation inheritance

Odoo provides the delegation inheritance mechanism, which avoids data structure duplication, so it is usually preferred when inheriting from regular models. It is used through the `_inherits` attribute (note the additional -s) with a dictionary mapping inherited models with fields linking to them.

Here an example creating user-partner relationship:
```
from openerp import models, fields
class User(models.Model):
	_name = 'res.users'
	_inherits = {'res.partner': 'partner_id'}
	partner_id = fields.Many2one('res.partner')
```
with delegation inheritance, the model `res.users` embeds the inherited model `res.partner`, so that when a new `User` is created, a partner is also created and a reference to it is kept the `partner_id` field of the `User`. It is similar to the polymorphism concept in object oriented programming.